# ResumeAnalyzerProject
Through this project, users will be able to develop an application or interface that uses AI to track the ATS score of ther resumes, determine if they are a good fit for a particular job opening, and get other helpful tips.

## Idea behind the application:
- This will be a web interface hosted on streamlit. Link for the published streamlit project here:
- The user will be able to upload their resume in this application, and ask the AI model to analyze their resume against a job description pasted/provided
- User should also be able to ask follow-up questions
- The AI model used here is *gemini-1.5-flash*
- The AI model analyzes ATS score, fitness against a job description, mistakes made in the resume and what the user can do to enhance their resume

### Files:
1. **requirements.txt** - A text file with a list of all the packages required for this application. This file can be run in a virtual environment (Python) to install the packages there. It is recommended to type the correct name of the packages and list them one after the other in new lines so there are no errors
2. **pdf.py**: This Python file contains 'extractPDF', a user-defined function to read the pdf that will be uploaded by the user. 
3. **analysis.py** - A Python file where the Google Gemini model is called and used on the uploaded resume by the user. There is a user-defined function called 'analyze_resume' that does that job.
4. **.env**: An environment variable file to hold secure information like model API keys. This api key variable is used in analysis.py to define the AI model used. 
5. **interface.py**: A file where the interface of the Streamlit application is defined. 
The variables for the uploaded pdf and job description will be the same as the variables used in 'analyze_resume' function in analysis.py. The results generated by the AI model will be displayed in the interface.

### Packages used (listed in requirements.txt):
The packages used to develop this application are: streamlit, python-dotenv, pypdf, google-generativeai
- *streamlit*: To be able to view our application in streamlit-based format/environment. The application has also been deployed in streamlit and the link has been pasted in this README
- *python-dotenv*: Since we are working with a virtual environment in our local systems, using this package is a must
- *pypdf*: A package used to interact with PDF files
- *google-generativeai*: This is used to access the API key and the generative model. I am using 'gemini-1.5-flash'. You can explore and use any model of your choice. 